书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: 1.3.1 COMPLETE STREETS PRINCIPLES

1.3.1	COMPLETE STREETS PRINCIPLES
This Handbook contains guidance on a wide range of street design treatments 
and provides flexibility for the designer to adapt to the diverse contexts found 
throughout Philadelphia. Complete streets come in many shapes and forms, but 
adhere to the following overarching complete streets principles:
•	
Design to accommodate all users – Complete streets provide appropriate 
space for all street users to coexist. Street design should accommodate 
pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users, automobiles, and commercial vehicles. 
(For additional information on transit stop design, see the SEPTA Transit Stop 
Design Standards Guide.)
•	
Design for safety – The safety of all street users, especially the most 
vulnerable users (children, the elderly, and disabled) and modes 
(pedestrians and bicyclists) should be paramount in any street design. 
The safety of streets can be dramatically improved through appropriate 
geometric design and operations.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 23
Introduction
•	
Prioritize pedestrian movement – Complete streets are built to pedestrian 
scale and privilege pedestrian movements, recognizing the critical role 
pedestrians play in urban vitality and because all trips include a pedestrian 
component (e.g., walking to/from parking, transit). 
•	
Complement surrounding land uses, environment, and community – 
Complete streets respect the surrounding built and natural environment. 
Well-designed streets promote travel speeds, modes, and sidewalk activities 
that are desired and appropriate for the surrounding context.
•	
Incorporate green design – Complete streets should incorporate green 
infrastructure such as street trees and stormwater curb extensions wherever 
practicable to simultaneously improve the pedestrian environment and 
mitigate the environmental impact of runoff and other transportation 
impacts. (For additional information on green streets and stormwater 
design, see the PWD Green Street Design Guide.)
•	
Create public spaces – Complete streets promote streets as public spaces 
and incorporate designs to maximize social and economic activity.

24 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Introduction
 DESIGN PRIORITIES FOR MULTIPLE ROADWAY USERS  
Pedestrian Design Priorities
1.	
Accessible curb ramps
2.	
Ample, unobstructed walkways
3.	
Safe, visible crossings
4.	
Public plazas and street-level activities
5.	
Pedestrian-scale lighting & urban design
6.	
Streetscaping and green space  
Transit Design Priorities
7.	
Convenient pedestrian access to stops 
8.	
Connections to surrounding destinations
9.	
Safe, secure waiting areas with passenger 
amenities
10.	 In-road facilities to increase service speed and 
reliability
11.	 Adequate curb radii  
Bicycle Design Priorities
12.	 Safe designated facilities
13.	 Ample, secure bike parking
14.	 Connected, well-marked network  
Automobile Design Priorities
15.	 Appropriate design speed (traffic calming)
16.	 Parking management
17.	 Appropriate distribution of road space  
Freight and Emergency 
Services Design Priorities
18.	 Adequate curb radii
19.	 Adequate lane width
20.	 Designated routes without disturbances
21.	 Loading zones
1
10
15
16
21
12
11
2
6
3
13
18
19-20
14
4-5
7-9
BUS
ONLY
17

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 25
Introduction