书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: 1.3.2 EMERGING TREATMENTS

1.3.2 EMERGING TREATMENTS
Emerging treatments are those that have not been installed broadly yet in the 
city, but in many cases have a long track record of success in other jurisdictions. 
Implementation of these treatments can enhance safety and improve the com-
fort and effectiveness of the multimodal transportation network. Including these 
treatments in the Handbook offers a menu of possible solutions for building out 
Complete Streets in Philadelphia. Emerging treatments might be most appro-
priate where other standard treatments are not successful due to constraints or 
limitations.
Additional testing and analyses are needed to best implement and ultimately 
standardize these emerging treatments for future application in Philadelphia. 
Emerging treatments can be installed using temporary materials, such as tem-
porary pavement markings, flexible delineator posts, water filled barriers, and/or 
planters. This allows for evaluation and adjustment to occur before permanent 
improvements are made.
PROCESS FOR IMPLEMENTING EMERGING TREATMENTS
This emerging treatment concept review process is intended to help City Staff 
identify whether an emerging treatment is applicable prior to the detailed 
design review process. This process is applicable for development projects as 
well as city-led projects.
1.	 Check Best Practices. Applicants should first verify that any proposed 
emerging treatments are applicable as per the guidelines offered herein, context-
specific street character, best practices identified in other cities, and guidance 
offered by national publications. Applicants should submit rationale regarding 
the pertinence of the emerging treatment in the subject context. Rationale 
might include relevant case studies, before and after data from treatment instal-
lation, and/or previous research on the treatment.
2.	 Submit Concepts. All emerging treatment concepts must first be reviewed 
by the Office of Complete Streets and the Right-of-Way Unit for applicability. 
Applicants shall submit a concept plan that demonstrates high-level compliance 
with standard engineering requirements, such as sight distance. The concept 
plan should also identify potential impacts to grading, draining, and vehicular 
operations. The concept plan should note the need for acceptance by MUTCD, 
whether Subject to Experimentation, or available through Interim Approval, as 
applicable.
3.	 Address Comments. The Streets Department will circulate the emerg-
ing treatment concept plan to applicable city divisions for review as needed. 
Applicants shall refine the concept as per comments received and resubmit for 
subsequent reviews as needed. 
4.	 Evaluate Effectiveness. The Applicant shall submit a plan for study and eval-
uation of the emerging treatment(s). This study should include relevant before 
and after data collection, such as speed, volume, and crash data. Data collection 
parameters shall be discussed and agreed upon by the Applicant and Streets 
Department Staff. The Applicant shall submit a memorandum documenting the 
analysis results to be reviewed by Streets Department Staff.
5.	 Adjust and Monitor. Under direction from Streets Department Staff, adjust-
ments might be required during emerging treatment implementation to address 
any negative impacts that are identified through the study process, through City 
Staff review, and/or by the public. If negative impacts cannot be mitigated, the 
treatment may be deemed inappropriate in such context and might require 
removal. A memorandum of understanding may be needed to assign responsi-
bilities and ensure completion of the evaluation process.
6.	 Adopt Standards. As emerging treatments are implemented more broadly 
in the city and study results show successful outcomes, treatments should be 
considered for standardization. 

26 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Introduction
EXAMPLES
The following treatments are examples of emerging treatments in the City of 
Philadelphia and thus, shall be implemented following the process outlined 
herein.
•	
Chicane (4.7.5)
•	
Diagonal Traffic Diverter (4.9.16)
•	
Raised Median Traffic Diverter (4.9.16)
•	
Protected Intersection (4.9.19)
•	
Raised Separated Bike Lane (4.5.7)
These treatments are marked with an Emerging Treatment icon.

PHILADELPHIA’S STREET PLANNING 
& DESIGN PROCESS 
02
S
E
C
T
I
O
N


Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 29
Street Planning and Design Process
2.1	 OVERVIEW OF PHILADELPHIA’S STREET 
PLANNING AND DESIGN PROCESS 
The process of planning, designing, operating, and maintaining high-quality 
streets requires consideration of many interconnected elements of the urban 
environment and involves many actors. This section provides a brief overview 
of the larger planning and design process that street design follows and how 
the Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook fits into that process. It also 
identifies the various agencies and partners involved in the street planning and 
design process, and their specific roles and responsibilities.