书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.4.2

TREATMENT 4.4.2     
Different materials may be used to differentiate the 
furnishing zone and allow stormwater infiltration.
The furnishing zone provides an area for street trees, 
planters, and green infrastructure.
APPLICATION:
	▪
Minimum and recommended furnishing zone 
widths are established for all street types in the 
Philadelphia Pedestrian and Bicycle Plan.
	▪
Enforcement of a minimum or recommended 
furnishing zone width in the absence of existing 
furnishings should be flexible when calculating 
sidewalk space available for temporary, seasonal, 
and movable encroachments, such as tables and 
chairs for outdoor cafes (4.4.6). 
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Elements in the furnishing zone should enhance the 
pedestrian environment, but maintain accessible 
paths for pedestrians.
	▪
Incorporate green infrastructure features in the 
furnishing zone wherever feasible.
	▪
The importance of the furnishing zone varies 
depending on the adjacent land use, speed and vol-
ume of traffic, and the presence of on-street parking 
(4.6.1).
	▪
Furnishings should be located so that they do 
not impede visibility at intersections or crossing 
locations.
	▪
Placement of furnishings should consider loca-
tion of underground utilities and potential 
complications.
DESIGN:
	▪
A minimum of 3’ is usually required just to accom-
modate utilitarian objects such as fire hydrants, 
utility poles, and road signs.
	▪
For major arterials, a minimum 5-foot furnishing 
zone is recommended to ensure adequate separa-
tion of pedestrians from vehicles.
	▪
Furnishing zone obstructions must meet ADA 
guidelines and maintain the minimum walking/
clear zone width on the sidewalk outlined in 4.3.2.
	▪
Trees, poles, and other obstructions should not be 
erected on the sidewalk within 15’ of the street line 
of an intersecting street, unless approved by the 
Streets Department (Philadelphia Code 11-606)
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Consider incorporating pervious pavement, plant-
ers (4.4.8), stormwater planters (4.4.9), trees, or tree 
pits (4.4.7).
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Furnishings such as trees, and lighting (4.4.4) may 
generally be placed in the public right-of-way 
provided the adjacent property owner or a local 
partner enters into a maintenance agreement with 
the Streets Department and obtains a right-of-way 
license or Council ordinance for the installation. 
	▪
Streets Department Right-of-Way Unit reviews 
and permits sidewalk encroachments including 
furnishings.
	▪
In many residential areas, the furnishing zone con-
sists of a planting strip.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Residential and commercial neighborhood
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
The furnishing zone is the area of the sidewalk between the walking zone and 
curb. The furnishing zone provides pedestrians a buffer from traffic and provides 
a space for plantings, street furniture, and other amenities. These elements can 
enhance the pedestrian environment, but also narrow the walking zone and can 
limit pedestrian mobility and comfort.

80 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Building & Furnishing Component
BICYCLE PARKING