书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.4.6

TREATMENT 4.4.6    
No heaters, signs, umbrellas or other portions of 
sidewalk cafes may not extend onto or project over the 
minimum clear sidewalk width unless at least 7’ vertical 
clearance is maintained
Sidewalk cafes on most streets should leave 6’ or half 
the total sidewalk width clear at all times.
APPLICATION:
	▪
Most appropriate on Civic/Ceremonial (3.2), 
Walkable Commercial Corridors (3.3), City 
Neighborhood Streets (3.8), and Urban Arterials 
(3.4).
	▪
Also appropriate in some circumstances on  
most other street types, including High-Volume 
Pedestrian Streets (3.1).
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Placement should consider space needed to accom-
modate café furnishings, server and customer circu-
lation, and pedestrians traveling along the sidewalk.
	▪
Placement should consider nearby transit stop and 
subway entrance locations.
	▪
No owner or operator of an establishment shall 
occupy any portion of a public sidewalk or other 
public right of way with tables and seats without 
first obtaining a Sidewalk Café Permit. Café permits 
are revocable based on changing conditions.
	▪
Because open-air sidewalk cafes are seasonal and 
movable, the calculation of the required Walking 
Zone adjacent to a café may include space available 
in the Furnishing Zone; however, each year with 
the renewal application, the space available for 
any sidewalk café may change based on changing 
conditions in the Furnishing Zone.
DESIGN:
	▪
Requirements for sidewalk cafes are addressed in 
the Philadelphia Code chapter 9-208, and include a 
minimum sidewalk clear width of no less than half 
the total sidewalk width or, on sidewalks less than 
13’ wide, no less than 5’.
	▪
Minimum clear width recommended for sidewalk 
cafes, as outlined in 4.3.2, ranges from 5’ on streets 
with few pedestrians, to 10’ on Civic/Ceremonial 
Streets (3.2). Most streets need clear width of 6’ or 
half the total sidewalk width. Minimum clear width 
is exclusive of grates and vault covers.
	▪
Fixed markers, flush with the sidewalk, should be 
used to demarcate sidewalk cafes’ maximum surface 
area.
	▪
Sidewalk cafes at street intersections must maintain 
a minimum clearance of 10’ from the point of tan-
gency of the curb line. 
	▪
Platforms, railings, or other permanent fixtures for 
sidewalk cafes are not recommended.
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Incorporate pervious pavement or utilize “parklet” 
design in parking lane (4.6.1).
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Property owners are responsible for maintaining 
and insuring sidewalk cafes.
	▪
Streets Department Right-of-Way Unit reviews and 
provides preliminary approval of sidewalk cafe 
locations.
	▪
The Department of Licenses and Inspections issues 
and enforces Sidewalk Cafe Permits. 
	▪
Streets Department and Licenses and Inspections 
approve and adopt regulations for the design and 
placement of permitted tables and seats. 
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Common throughout Philadelphia
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
Sidewalk cafes consist of any seasonal and movable restaurant seating or 
furnishings that are located on sidewalks or in the public right of way. Sidewalk 
cafes help to “activate” the sidewalk and provide a valuable neighborhood amenity, 
but must be regulated to ensure that adequate clear width is maintained for the 
expected level of pedestrian activity, based on the street type.

84 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Building & Furnishing Component
STREET TREES & TREE TRENCHES