书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.4.7

TREATMENT 4.4.7  
Tree pits should maintain adequate clear walking space 
and provide room for trees to grow without pushing up 
adjacent pavement.
Tree trenches can accommodate multiple trees and 
may be connected to an underground infiltration 
structure.
APPLICATION:
	▪
Appropriate on all street types.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Street trees and tree pits should be located so that 
they maintain minimum clear walking zone widths 
(see 4.3.2) at the time of installation and as trees 
grow. 
	▪
Walkable tree grates, permeable pavers, and struc-
tural soil should be used and maintained to ensure 
that tree pits do not create pinch points or tripping 
hazards.
	▪
Trees with narrow canopies that do not reduce 
intersection visibility should be considered in curb 
extensions (4.9.4) and medians (4.7.3).
	▪
Tree placement and species choice should consider 
the location of above and underground utilities 
(4.8.2) (e.g., use trees with low canopies under over-
head wiring).
	▪
Trees should not be planted in front of steps, door-
ways, or alleyways.
DESIGN:
	▪
Tree pit and trench dimensions vary depending 
upon site conditions. Standard width for tree wells 
is 4’ from the face of the parallel curb, required mini-
mum tree pit size is 3’x3’.
	▪
Street trees shall not be placed within 55’ of the 
approach of an intersection where no parking or 
bike lane is present, 45’ where a parking or bike lane 
is present, or 35’ of the exit of any intersection.
	▪
Location and type of street tree must be coordi-
nated with the Department of Parks and Recreation 
(PPR).
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Stormwater tree pits and trenches should be 
considered (see sidebar and Green Street Design 
Manual). 
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Department of Parks and Recreation (PPR) manages 
all park and street trees in Philadelphia. The Street 
Tree Management Division plants new trees (after 
an arborist conducts an inspection and obtains a 
signed permission form from the adjacent property 
owner), inspects trees for removal or pruning, and 
removes fallen trees or branches blocking sidewalks 
or streets. 
	▪
Most tree planting, pruning, and removal is done by 
arborists contracted by PPR.
	▪
Tree placement and species review is permitted and 
approved by Parks and Recreation.
	▪
Street opening permits for new tree pits or trenches 
are approved by Streets Department.
	▪
PPR inspects street trees that are breaking up the 
sidewalk on a case-by-case basis and may recom-
mend the property owner replace the paving.
	▪
Adjacent property owners are responsible for water-
ing street trees and keeping tree pits clear, but must 
obtain a permit to prune or remove trees.
	▪
L&I inspects and enforces tree problems in alleys 
and on private property.
	▪
CCD maintains (waters and prunes) and replaces 
dead street trees in Center City. 
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Stormwater tree trench at West Mill Creek, Ogden 
and Ramsey Street 
Street trees are trees planted in the public right-of-way, whether in individual 
tree pits or trenches. Street trees help beautify the urban environment, provide 
shade, filter noise and air pollution, and absorb storm water. Street trees planted 
between the sidewalk and curb in Philadelphia are managed by the Fairmount 
Park Commission Street Tree Management Division.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 85
Building and Furnishing Component
RESOURCES:
	▪
Green Street Design Manual
	▪
Recommended Street Tree List
	▪
Fairmount Park Street Tree Management Division
	▪
http://www.phillywatersheds.org/doc/ModelNeighborhoods/Street_Tree_
FAQ.pdf
	▪
http://www.phila.gov/green/buildersGuide.html
	▪
http://phillywatersheds.org/what_were_doing/green_infrastructure/tools/
stormwater_tree_trench

86 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Building & Furnishing Component
STORMWATER TREE TRENCHES 
“A stormwater tree trench is a system of trees that are connected by an under-
ground infiltration structure. On the surface, a stormwater tree trench looks just 
like a series of street tree pits. However, under the sidewalk, there is an engi-
neered system to manage the incoming runoff. This system is composed of a 
trench dug along the sidewalk, lined with a permeable geotextile fabric, filled 
with stone or gravel, and topped off with soil and trees. Stormwater runoff flows 
through a special inlet (storm drain) leading to the stormwater tree trench. The 
runoff is stored in the empty spaces between the stones, watering the trees and 
slowly infiltrating through the bottom. If the capacity of this system is exceeded, 
stormwater runoff can bypass it entirely and flow into an existing street inlet.”
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
- Phillywatersheds.org  

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 87
Building & Furnishing Component
PLANTERS