书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.4.12

TREATMENT 4.4.12
Like newsstands (5.2.2), vendors should be located to 
provide adequate space for customers to be served, 
while allowing other pedestrians to pass by.
APPLICATION:
	▪
Most appropriate on Walkable Commercial 
Corridors (3.2), and Urban Arterials (3.4). 
	▪
Also appropriate in some circumstances on a 
range of other street types, including High-Volume 
Pedestrian Streets (3.1) and City Neighborhood 
Streets (3.8).
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Placement should consider space needed to accom-
modate customers waiting in line and pedestrians 
traveling along the sidewalk.
DESIGN:
	▪
Requirements for commercial activities on streets, 
including vendors, are addressed in the Philadelphia 
Code chapter 9-200, and include a minimum clear 
width of 6’ outside Center City, and 6.5’ in Center 
City.
	▪
Minimum clear width recommended for vendors, as 
outlined in 4.3.2, ranges from 5’ on streets with few 
pedestrians, to 10’ on Civic/Ceremonial Streets (3.2). 
Most streets need clear width of 6’ or half the total 
sidewalk width.
	▪
Vendors in Center City may not operate at any 
location:
	▫
Within 10’ of building lines, or a newsstand;
	▫
Less than 25’ upstream of any bus stop sign; 
	▫
10’ upstream of any subway entrance/exit;
	▫
Within 15’ of any means of egress from a building, 
any midblock crosswalk, or any alley or driveway; 
or
	▫
Within 5’ of where curbs have been depressed to 
facilitate pedestrian or vehicular movement.
	▪
Vendors outside Center City must be no closer than 
10’ from “the intersection of the legal building line, 
produced of the intersecting streets or sidewalks.” 
	▪
Special sidewalk vending districts with unique 
rules are located in the Central Germantown and 
University City Districts.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Licenses and Inspections enforces vendor licensing 
and placement.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Residential and commercial neighborhood
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
A vendor is any person or vehicle that travels from place to place, carrying, 
conveying, or transporting goods, wares or merchandise for sale or making 
sales and delivering articles to purchasers. Vendors include wagons, handcarts, 
pushcarts, motor vehicles, and mobile stands. Vendors provide a convenient 
commercial service, but must be regulated to ensure that adequate clear width is 
maintained for the expected level of pedestrian activity, based on the street type.

92 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Building & Furnishing Component
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES