书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.6.2

TREATMENT 4.6.2
	  
	  
In-street bike parking can be combined with curb 
extensions to provide a more protected area for 
bicycles and to accommodate planters or bioswales. 
(Bikeportland)
Philadelphia’s first in-street “bike corral” was installed 
on Sydenham Street (off 1500 block of Walnut St.) in 
September 2011. 
APPLICATION:
	▪
High Volume Pedestrian Streets (3.1), Civic/
Ceremonial Streets (3.2), Walkable Commercial 
Corridors (3.3), City Neighborhood Streets (3.8).
	▪
Common in walkable/bikeable commercial areas.
	▪
Cannot be used on streets with restricted peak hour 
parking.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Can be combined with curb extensions (4.9.4) to 
provide additional protection from errant vehicles 
and provide space for green infrastructure.
	▪
Help to reduce bicycle clutter on busy sidewalks.
	▪
Locations frequently determined by requests from 
surrounding businesses.
	▪
Standard U-racks or decorative racks can be used.
DESIGN:
	▪
Bike racks should be placed so that parked bikes are 
perpendicular to the curb line.
	▪
Should be protected from vehicles by a curb, 
delineator posts, or other barrier at the edge of the 
parking lane. Where possible, racks can be placed 
on a curb extension (4.9.4). 
	▪
If located on a curb extension or above grade, best 
practice is to provide a curb ramp to allow cyclists 
to wheel their bicycle from the travel lane into the 
parking area.
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Use stormwater bumpouts (4.9.4) to buffer and 
protect in-street bicycle parking.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Streets Dept will permit if local maintenance agree-
ment is signed with adjacent property owner or 
another maintenance partner. 
	▪
Area cannot be reached by street sweepers or 
snow plows, so some additional maintenance is 
necessary.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Sydenham and Walnut 
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
In-street bike parking can be provided in the parking lane in areas where there is 
not enough room to fit a car, for example, in between driveways. On-street vehicle 
parking spaces may also be converted to provide in-street bicycle parking. One 
standard 20’ vehicle parking space can provide parking for up to 12 bicycles on 6 
standard U-racks. In-street bike parking also has the benefit of not intruding onto 
adjacent sidewalks.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 117
Curbside Management Component  
Typical downtown in-street bicycle parking design 
(Portland Bureau of Transportation)

118 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Curbside Management Component
LAY-BY LANES