书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.6.3

TREATMENT 4.6.3 
	  
	  
Lay-by lanes are generally discouraged because they 
allow vehicles to encroach into the sidewalk area and 
decrease comfort and safety for pedestrians (KAI).
APPLICATION:
	▪
Discouraged in most instances because of loss of 
pedestrian space, but if there is not an adjacent 
parking lane that can be converted to loading, lay-
bys are allowed for hospitals and often for hotels.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Protect safety and comfort of sidewalk, especially 
on major pedestrian streets.
	▪
Loading zones (4.6.4) should be used instead of lay-
by lanes whenever possible.
	▪
Lay-by lanes should be reserved for uses that have 
an urgent need for loading space at the entrance, 
such as hospitals and hotels. 
	▪
Lay-by lanes should not be permitted for residences 
or in high pedestrian traffic areas. 
DESIGN:
	▪
 Where permitted, lanes should preserve the rec-
ommended minimum walking zone width for the 
Street Type (see 4.3.2), plus several additional feet 
to accommodate the car door and the anticipated 
loading activity.
	▪
Where new buildings are constructed and a lay-
by lane is desired, the full width of the existing 
sidewalk should be maintained adjacent to the 
lay-by; that is, the building should be set back at the 
ground floor level. 
	▪
Where a lay-by is permitted adjacent to a parking/
loading lane, because of peak hour clearance, the 
maximum intrusion into the sidewalk should be 3’. 
This will prevent vehicles from double parking dur-
ing off-peak hours.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
The Streets Department Transportation Engineering 
and Planning Services unit permits and approves 
lay-by lanes.
	▪
Lay-by lanes are constructed and maintained by the 
developer or property owner.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
16th Street North of Chestnut (Liberty 2)
	▪
1400 Arch
	▪
Pennsylvania Hospital Entrance on Spruce Street
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
Lay-by lanes are typically allowed for hotels and hospitals if there is not an 
adjacent parking lane that can be converted to a loading zone. Lay-by lanes are 
discouraged, particularly in high pedestrian traffic areas, because they encroach 
on sidewalk space, eliminate the Furnishing Zone, and decrease the comfort and 
quality of the pedestrian environment.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 119
Curbside Management Component
LOADING ZONES