书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.8.1

TREATMENT 4.8.1  
Many streets and homes in Philadelphia were not 
designed to accommodate driveways. Curb cuts can 
actually reduce overall parking capacity by eliminating 
on-street parking spaces. (PPC Rowhouse Manual).
Driveways onto major streets should be limited, 
particularly in high pedestrian traffic areas, due to 
conflicts created with pedestrians and vehicles.
APPLICATION:
	▪
Code limits or prohibits driveways on certain pedes-
trian streets in Center City and on Kelly Drive.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Driveways should be limited on streets with sig-
nificant pedestrian and vehicular traffic, in order to 
minimize the potential for conflicts and collisions.
	▪
In residential areas, curb cuts to create driveways 
make the parking supply less efficient and can even 
reduce overall parking capacity by eliminating on-
street parking spaces.
	▪
The Philadelphia Pedestrian and Bicycle Plan recom-
mends limiting the number of driveways to no more 
than two driveways for every 200’ of lot frontage per 
property. 
	▪
Parking facility access to these streets: Chestnut, 
Walnut, Locust, Spruce east of Broad, Broad, Market, 
and the Parkway, is limited under the zoning code 
and should be provided from the side or rear, pref-
erably through service streets. 
	▪
In residential areas, permeable paving can be used 
for driveways, or a center green vegetative strip 
can reduce the impervious surface. (Best Practice: 
Boston, MA) 
	▪
When driveways are placed on streets with curb 
parking, leftover spaces of less than 15’ long may be 
created that are too short to park a car at the curb. 
These spaces can be combined with the furnishing 
zone and greened with planters (4.4.8), vegetation 
strips, or tree wells (4.4.7). 
	▪
Maintain adequate sight distance. 
DESIGN:
	▪
More than one driveway per 100’ is discouraged.
	▪
Driveways should be at least 150’ from the approach 
to a signalized intersection, 60’ from the approach 
to a stop controlled or uncontrolled intersection, 
and 60’ from the exit (downstream corner) of any 
intersection, as measured from the stop bar to the 
outer edge of the curb cut (excludes flare). Refer to 
requirements in the Traffic Engineering Standards 
and Right-of-Way Improvement Standards.
	▪
City policy is to locate driveways on service streets 
to the extent possible rather than on important traf-
fic or pedestrian streets.
	▪
PCPC policy: Parking pads or garages should be 
placed at rear of houses unless parcel is not deep 
enough or front parking is the predominant existing 
pattern in the adjacent neighborhood and on the 
specific block.
	▪
Driveways that cross the sidewalk must be at the 
same level as the sidewalk. The driveway material 
must change at the building line to demarcate the 
transition to the sidewalk.
	▪
Sidewalks should be visually continuous across 
driveways with a cross maximum cross slope of 2% 
to indicate pedestrians have the right-of-way. 
	▪
All driveways must meet ADA requirements. Curb 
returns for driveways are prohibited because they 
create tripping hazards. 
	▪
Driveways should be at least 18’ deep past the right-
of-way line, so that vehicles do not encroach onto 
the sidewalk. 
	▪
Curb cuts must be located a minimum of 8’ from any 
right-of-way intersection.
	▪
Minimum 6’ separation between adjacent driveway 
aprons, 10’ preferred (paving plan guidelines)
	▪
Driveways for single-family residences should not 
exceed 12’ in width. Two-way driveways should not 
be wider than 24’, and non-single-family one-way 
driveways should not be wider than 14’. 
The width, spacing, number, and location of driveways impacts urban design 
and safety for all roadway users. The Planning Commission has developed 
guidelines for residential driveways and garages that balance the interests of 
new development and existing communities. These guidelines seek to safeguard 
existing neighborhood character, sidewalk safety and maintain on-street parking 
resources.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 133
Urban Design Component
	▫
Exemptions may be permitted for driveways 
to loading bays where the cartway is less than 
40’ wide, or where the applicant shows that the 
design vehicle needs additional space for the 
required movements. 
	▪
Curb cut widths for driveways serving off-street 
parking areas:
	▫
Single Garage – 10 feet
	▫
Double or Two Garages – 18-20 feet
	▫
Service Drive One Way – 12 feet
	▫
Service Drive Two Way – 20 feet
	▪
Garages and curb cuts should be mirrored/paired 
to lessen the impact on the street and preserve on-
street parking.
	▪
Signs, mirrors, flashing lights, or other warning 
signals may be needed at garage exits where they 
cross the sidewalk. It should always be clear that 
vehicles must yield to pedestrians on the sidewalk. 
Stop signs should be used where sight distance is 
restricted. 
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Incorporate pervious pavement.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Adjacent property owners are responsible for main-
tenance of driveways.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Common throughout Philadelphia
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia City Planning Commission Guidelines 
for Residential Driveways and Garages

134 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Urban Design Component
UTILITIES