书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.9.7

TREATMENT 4.9.7 
APPLICATION:
	▪
 Transit signal priority (TSP) is applicable where sig-
nals contribute to service delay. Typically, corridors 
with long signal cycles or long distances between 
signals are good candidates.
	▪
Emergency vehicle preemption (EVP) offers emer-
gency vehicles signal priority and thus, might be 
applicable along signalized corridors.
	▪
Queue jump lanes are applicable on signalized cor-
ridors with low or moderate bus service frequency. 
They are applied with either a leading bus interval 
or active signal priority and can be applied near-
side or far-side.
	▪
Leading bicycle intervals (LBI) are applied at inter-
sections with high bicycle turning movements. They 
quickly clear intersections of cyclists, which can 
reduce right hook collisions.
	▪
Leading pedestrian intervals (LPI) are applicable at 
intersections where heavy motor vehicle turning 
traffic conflicts with crossing pedestrians during a 
permissive signal cycle. LPI may also be applicable 
at locations where there are pedestrian visibility 
concerns and/or near pedestrian generators such as 
parks, schools, and hospitals. 
	▪
A lagging pedestrian interval allows the right turn 
queue to clear before the pedestrian walk indication 
to reduce conflicts.
	▪
TSP, EVP, LPI, etc. should be accommodated with the 
installation of new traffic signal controllers.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
TSP should be implemented to maximize passenger 
arrivals. Benefits are amplified when implemented 
with dedicated transit lanes. TSP can be provided 
conditionally such that priority is only given to late 
vehicles. 
	▪
TSP is most effective with volume to capacity ratios 
of 0.5 to 0.7. TSP may increase waiting times on 
cross streets.
	▪
Queue jump lanes are especially effective along 
congested corridors.
	▪
LPIs are a low-cost countermeasure that can sig-
nificantly reduce intersection pedestrian-vehicle 
crashes.
	▪
Providing a curb extension improves the effec-
tiveness of the LPI and increases visibility of 
pedestrians.
DESIGN:
	▪
At queue jumps, buses must have access to reach 
the intersection at the start of a signal cycle. 
Separate signals are needed to individually direct 
transit and general traffic.
	▪
The queue jump must be long enough for buses to 
bypass the expected length of congestion.
	▪
LPIs should provide a minimum 3- to 7-second head 
start. Intervals up to 10 seconds may be appropriate 
where there are high pedestrian volumes.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Streets Department Traffic Engineering unit installs 
and maintains traffic signals
EXAMPLES:
	▪
TSP for Route 60 bus on Allegheny Avenue
	▪
LPI at Broad and Pine Street
RESOURCES:
	▪
FHWA Signal Timing Manual
	▪
NACTO Transit Street Design Guide
	▪
NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide – Don’t Give 
Up at the Intersection
Traffic signal priority tools establish modal priority and can improve multimodal 
safety along a corridor. Transit signal priority modifies signal timing or phasing to 
improve service reliability and reduce travel time. Queue jump lanes allow buses 
to enter traffic flow in a priority position, reducing delay and increasing reliability. 
Leading pedestrian and bicycle intervals increase the visibility of crossing 
pedestrians and cyclists, giving them priority within the intersection.
LPI at the intersection of Broad Street and Pine Street in 
Philadelphia (Source: KAI)
Queue Jump Diagram (Source: NACTO)
Traffic signal for motor vehicles on 
Pine Street remains red while the 
walk signal initiates for pedestrians 
crossing Broad Street

152 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Table of Contents
Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 152
Intersection & Crossing Component
PEDESTRIAN HYBRID BEACONS