书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.9.14

TREATMENT 4.9.14
	  
	  
Raised crosswalks provide a level, highly visible 
crossing for pedestrians and traffic calming for vehicles. 
(Streetsblog SF)
Raised crosswalks should be accompanied by signs and 
pavement parkings to alert motorists of the crossing 
and pavement change. Detectable warnings should also 
be used for pedestrians.(54th St south of  City Ave)
APPLICATION:
	▪
Existing crosswalks that also meet the criteria for 
raised speed reducers (4.7.2).
	▪
Uncontrolled marked crossings (4.9.2) where addi-
tional speed reduction and visibility is desired.
	▪
Streets with high pedestrian crossing demand and a 
maximum of two moving lanes. 
	▪
Gateways or where a street’s function or type 
changes.
	▪
Entrances to Local (3.11) or Shared Narrow (3.10) 
streets.
	▪
Avoid on streets that are emergency response or 
major truck routes.
	▪
Most appropriate for retrofitting existing streets 
where increased pedestrian visibility and reduced 
vehicle speeds are desired at crossings. New or 
reconstructed streets should be designed to achieve 
these results using roadway width, curb extensions 
(4.9.4), and other traffic calming treatments.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
May impact street drainage or require catch basin 
relocation. Can be combined with curb extensions 
(4.9.4) with planters or bioswales (4.4.8) to improve 
stormwater management (4.8.4).
	▪
Decision to install raised crossing should be 
informed by an engineering study of the location, 
including speeds, geometry, and operations.
	▪
At intersection locations, the raised area can be 
extended to include the entire intersection (gener-
ally in areas where pedestrian movement is a major 
priority and target vehicle speeds are less than 25 
mph). 
DESIGN:
	▪
Should be accompanied by warning signs and pave-
ment markings. 
	▪
Should be flush with the sidewalk in height. 
Detectable warnings should be used where pedes-
trians will cross into the cartway.
	▪
The full width of the marked crosswalk (usually 
10-15’) should be contained within the flat portion 
of the speed table. Width of 10’ typically allows both 
front and rear wheels of passenger vehicles to be on 
top of the table at the same time.
	▪
Paving materials can utilize recycled content.
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Incorporate with stormwater bumpouts (4.9.4) to 
reduce crossing distance.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Snow plows must be given advance warning of 
raised crossings by warning signs or other methods.
	▪
Streets Department maintains or identifies local 
maintenance partner.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
54th St south of City Avenue
RESOURCES:
	▪
MUTCD 
	▪
ITE/FHWA Traffic Calming: State of the Practice 
includes guidance on speed table width
A raised crossing is a marked crosswalk that is constructed at a higher elevation 
than the surrounding roadway, bringing the crosswalk to the level of the sidewalk. 
Essentially, it is a raised speed table (4.7.2) that contains the full width of a marked 
crosswalk. As a result, raised crossings increase the visibility of pedestrian crossings 
and force vehicles to slow before proceeding over the crosswalk. Raised crossings 
also provide a level pedestrian path from curb to curb, so ramps are not required.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 159
Intersection & Crossing Component
TWO-STAGE LEFT TURN QUEUE BOXES