书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: 1.2.2 LOCAL POLICY CONTEXT

1.2.2	LOCAL POLICY CONTEXT
The Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook builds on and supports sev-
eral major City policy and planning initiatives, including:
•	
Philadelphia Pedestrian and Bicycle Plan – This Plan, completed in 
April 2012, identifies policies, programs, and implementation strategies to 
increase walking and bicycling in the City by improving the connectivity, 
safety, convenience, and attractiveness of pedestrian and bicycle networks. 
The Plan also presents a street classification system with design standards 
for sidewalks that reflects the interplay between roadway function, 
pedestrian activity, and adjacent land use. This Handbook builds upon the 
classification system and sidewalk standards established in the Pedestrian and 
Bicycle Plan.
•	
Philadelphia 2035 – The 2035 Comprehensive Plan is part of an integrated 
planning and zoning process. Organized around three major themes – 
Thrive, Connect, and Renew – the Plan includes a long-range citywide 
plan and 18 strategic district plans. The Philadelphia 2035 District Plans are 
“in process” and will be for the next several years, but the larger citywide 
document was completed in June 2011. This Handbook provides design 
options that will support implementation of the 2035 citywide vision and 
district plans.
•	
Philadelphia Zoning Code Commission Report – The Zoning Code 
Commission’s revision of the Zoning Code was adopted by City Council 
in December 2011. The new zoning classifications follow the land-use 
and transportation goals, principles, and recommendations of the 
Comprehensive Plan. This Handbook builds upon the new Zoning Code’s 
standards for new streets and provides recommendations for improving the 
interface between the public right-of-way and surrounding land uses.
•	
Greenworks Philadelphia – Released by the Mayor’s Office of Sustainability 
in April 2009, Greenworks Philadelphia sets 15 targets to make Philadelphia 
the greenest city in the United States by 2015. Together, they are 
intended to reduce the City’s vulnerability to rising energy prices, limit its 
environmental footprint, and reposition its workforce and job development 
strategies to build on Philadelphia’s competitive advantages in the 
emerging green economy. This Handbook was identified as a task to complete 
the Greenworks initiative and provides design options that will support 
achievement of the Greenworks targets.
•	
Green City, Clean Waters (Stormwater Management Plan) – This 
Plan, developed by the Philadelphia Water Department (PWD), identifies 
strategies for dealing with rainwater through “green infrastructure” (e.g., rain 
gardens, green roofs, porous pavement, planted curb extensions, vegetated 
parking-lot swales, street trees) to avoid the cost of boring large stormwater 
tunnels or greatly expanding sewage plants to hold overflow for subsequent 
treatment. This Handbook incorporates PWD’s recommendations and identifies 
opportunities to incorporate green infrastructure into street improvements that 
also serve pedestrians, bicyclists, and transit users.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 21
Introduction