书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: 1.2.3 CONCURRENT PROJECTS

1.2.3	CONCURRENT PROJECTS
The Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook was developed concurrently 
with two additional documents that will impact the design of Philadelphia’s 
streets and multimodal facilities in the future: 
•	
Green Streets Design Manual – This manual, currently under development 
by the Philadelphia Water Department, provides design guidance for 
“green infrastructure” stormwater management features currently being 
implemented or considered on Philadelphia’s streets. Design treatments 
addressed include: stormwater curb extensions, tree trenches, stormwater 
planters, rain gardens, permeable paving, green gutters, and other 
innovative treatments. For each treatment, the manual provides a typical 
design and discussion of benefits, constraints, and other design issues. For 
more information, go to: www.phillywatersheds.org.
•	
SEPTA Transit Stop Design Standards – This guide, currently being 
developed jointly by SEPTA and DVRPC, will provide a consistent set of 
standards for designing surface transit stops in Philadelphia and the 
surrounding region. The guidelines will address four primary aspects 
of transit stop design: stop location (placement relative to other stops, 
intersections, and development), in-street design (street space allocated for 
transit vehicle operation), curbside design (space reserved for passengers to 
wait for and board transit vehicles), and passenger amenities (e.g., shelters, 
lighting, seating). For more information, go to: www.septa.org.
These design manuals will serve as companion documents to the Philadelphia 
Complete Streets Design Handbook and have been developed in coordination to 
avoid duplicative or conflicting guidance. Although this Handbook addresses 
many design issues and treatments related to green infrastructure and transit 
facilities, readers will be directed to these documents for more detailed guidance 
on these issues wherever appropriate. 

22 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Introduction
1.3	
WHY DOES PHILADELPHIA NEED COMPLETE STREETS? 
“Complete streets are streets for everyone. They are 
designed and operated to enable safe access for all 
users. Pedestrians, bicyclists, motorists, and public 
transportation users of all ages and abilities are able 
to safely move along and across a complete street. 
Complete streets make it easy to cross the street, walk 
to shops, and bicycle to work. They allow buses to run 
on time and make it safe for people to walk to and from 
train stations.”	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
-	 Complete Streets Coalition
Philadelphia’s streets have historically served many functions. Many of the City’s 
streets were originally designed in the early twentieth century to serve horses, 
carriages, and pedestrians. These streets served important civic, cultural, and 
economic functions for Philadelphians, housing public markets, parade routes, 
plazas, and venues for socializing in addition to facilitating travel and movement 
of goods. As personal and freight transportation became more focused on motor 
vehicles over time, however, street designs also evolved to focus primarily on 
facilitating efficient movement of cars and trucks.
This focus created benefits as well as challenges for the City. In some areas, streets 
were constructed or expanded without accommodations for non-motorized 
modes or transit, creating an unwelcoming or unsafe environment for pedes-
trians and bicyclists with limited transportation options. Additional impacts 
include pollution, increased stormwater runoff from ever-widening roadways, 
and decreased opportunities for social and physical activity on streets. In other 
areas, widening narrow streets to accommodate increasing vehicle traffic has 
proven difficult or impossible without disturbing existing neighborhoods and 
historic buildings. 
Complete streets design represent a return to the historic, multi-faceted role 
of streets in Philadelphia. The Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook 
presents an updated approach to street design drawing from the recent experi-
ences of New York City, San Francisco, and other peer communities’ efforts to 
create a transportation network that promotes community vitality and provides 
safe, convenient options for motorists, pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users, and 
freight carriers. This approach also considers the role of Philadelphia’s streets in 
achieving citywide goals beyond transportation and mobility, such as improved 
public health, environmental quality, quality of life, and economic development. 
This Handbook provides City staff, community organizations, developers, and 
others the tools needed to make our city’s streets better.