书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.4.1

TREATMENT 4.4.1     
Stairs and stoops are common building elements 
extending into the sidewalk in Philadelphia’s historic 
neighborhoods. Placement of street trees and 
furnishings must be planned around these features to 
ensure a clear walking path.
Building setbacks may be adjusted to provide space for 
street level amenities such as sidewalk cafes without 
obstructing the clear width of the sidewalk.
APPLICATION:
	▪
No minimum building zone widths are recom-
mended due to the narrow sidewalks in the City.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Elements in the building zone should enhance the 
pedestrian environment, but maintain accessible 
paths for pedestrians.
	▪
On streets where numerous permanent encroach-
ments already exist in the building zone, new 
encroachments are allowed to the extent that 
they respect the prevailing alignment of existing 
encroachments. 
DESIGN:
	▪
Building zone obstructions must meet ADA guide-
lines and maintain the minimum walking/clear zone 
width on the sidewalk outlined in 4.3.2.
	▪
3’ of clear right-of-way is needed on the side of 
paths opposite the road on Park Roads and Scenic 
Drives.
	▪
Building setback serves as building zone on lower 
density residential streets. 
	▪
Additional building setback can be added to new 
development to create space for sidewalk cafes 
(4.4.6) and other active street-level uses.
	▪
No obstructions are allowed beyond the line of 
steps or stoops on Shared Narrow (3.10)  and Local 
(3.11) streets.
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Consider incorporating planters (4.4.8) and pervious 
pavements.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Property owners are responsible for obtaining 
permits for and maintaining obstructions in the 
Building Zone.
	▪
Streets Department Right-of-Way Unit reviews and 
approves sidewalk encroachments.
	▪
Zoning Board of Adjustments must hear all variance 
requests. Very few administrative adjustments are 
allowed.
	▪
City Council must approve an ordinance for any 
street change, including variances from the stan-
dards for architectural obstructions beyond the 
property line in the Streets Code.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Residential and commercial neighborhood
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
The Building Zone is the area of the sidewalk immediately adjacent to the 
building face, wall, or fence marking the property line, or a lawn in lower density 
residential areas. The Building Zone includes architectural elements such as steps, 
bay windows, or planters (4.4.8) and commercial activities such as sidewalk cafes 
(4.4.6) that intrude into the sidewalk. These elements can enhance the pedestrian 
environment, but also narrow the walking zone and can limit accessibility.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 79
Building & Furnishing Component
FURNISHING ZONE WIDTH