书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.4.11

TREATMENT 4.4.11    
This newsstand technically provides adequate clear 
walking space, but does not account for space needed 
for waiting customers.
This newsstand provides adequate space to serve 
customers, while allowing other pedestrians to pass by.
APPLICATION:
	▪
Civic Ceremonial Streets (3.2), Urban Arterials (3.4), 
and Walkable Commercial Corridors (3.3).
	▪
Appropriate on some High-Volume Pedestrian 
Streets and City Neighborhood Streets
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Placement should consider space needed to accom-
modate customers waiting in line and pedestrians 
traveling along the sidewalk.
DESIGN:
	▪
Requirements for commercial activities on streets, 
including newsstands, are addressed in the 
Philadelphia Code chapter 9-200, and include a 
minimum clear width of 6’ on the sidewalk.
	▪
Minimum clear width recommended for news-
stands, as outlined in 4.3.2, ranges from 5’ on streets 
with few pedestrians, to 10’ on Civic/Ceremonial 
Streets (3.2). Most streets need clear width of 6’ or 
half the total sidewalk width.
	▪
Only one newsstand can be located on any corner.
	▪
No more than two newsstands can be located at 
any intersection or on any one side of a blockface.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
Streets Department Right-of-Way Unit reviews and 
approves sidewalk encroachments.
	▪
Licenses and Inspections enforces newsstand licens-
ing and placement.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Residential and commercial neighborhood
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Pedestrian & Bicycle Plan
Newsstands are stationary structures used for the sale and display of newspapers, 
magazines, and periodicals. Newsstands are staffed by an attendant, unlike honor 
boxes that can be operated by customers independently. Newsstands provide a 
convenient commercial service, but must be regulated to ensure that adequate 
clear width is maintained for the expected level of pedestrian activity, based on 
the street type.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 91
Building & Furnishing Component
VENDORS