书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.6.1

TREATMENT 4.6.1 
	  
Typical on-street parking design (Smart Transportation 
Guidebook)
APPLICATION:
	▪
Appropriate on all street types except Shared 
Narrow Streets (3.10), provided that desired operat-
ing speeds are 35 mph or lower.
	▪
Back-in angled parking should be considered on 
wide streets in commercial areas with lower vol-
umes and speeds (can provide more parking spaces 
than parallel parking).
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Balance access and traffic calming benefits of park-
ing lanes with negative impacts such as increased 
pedestrian crossing distance and decreased right-
of-way available for sidewalks, bicycle facilities (4.5), 
and green infrastructure.
DESIGN:
	▪
See Philadelphia Code Title 12-900 for standards 
and regulations for parking and loading facilities in 
the public right-of-way.
	▪
The desired parking lane width in Philadelphia is 8’ 
(minimum is 7’). This width should be assumed on 
all residential streets and is acceptable on commer-
cial streets with lower traffic volumes and parking 
turnover.
	▪
Recommended parallel parking space dimensions 
are 7-8’ wide and 19-20’ long, designated by 4” white 
lines.
	▪
At least 1.5’ should be kept clear between the curb 
and any trees, poles, or other objects on the side-
walk, to allow for opening and closing car doors.
	▪
Back-in angled parking spaces are typically 8.5’ 
wide. (see Smart Transportation Guidebook)
GREEN STREET OPPORTUNITIES:
	▪
Incorporate pervious pavement and/or stormwater 
bumpouts (4.9.4).
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
The Philadelphia Parking Authority regulates on-
street parking and loading zones and installs and 
maintains parking meters and parking signs.
	▪
Streets Department determines where parking, bus, 
and taxi zones are allowed. 
	▪
Streets Department installs and maintains striping 
for on-street parking.
	▪
City Council establishes parking regulations.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Common throughout Philadelphia
RESOURCES:
	▪
Smart Transportation Guidebook
On-street parking serves an important need for motor vehicles. Parking lanes 
can also help to make streets more comfortable for pedestrians and bicyclists by 
providing a buffer from traffic and calming traffic (reducing vehicle speeds) by 
narrowing the perceived width of the roadway.

Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook | 115
Curbside Management Component
PEAK HOUR RESTRICTED PARKING
In peak hour restricted parking areas, on-street parking is allowed during off-
peak hours and restricted during peak hours to provide an additional travel lane. 
Peak hour restricted parking is an important tool for managing congestion and 
for providing on-street parking in some areas, but requires extensive enforce-
ment to effectively improve traffic operations. Peak hour restricted parking is 
generally discouraged in complete streets applications, because curb extensions 
cannot be used in areas with peak hour clearances. Removing parking during 
peak hours can also encourage higher vehicle speeds, make it difficult to access 
parking for nearby destinations during peak hours, and increase pedestrian 
crossing distances during highest traffic volumes. 
In April 2010, the Chicago Department of Transportation began lifting rush hour 
parking restrictions on 225 of the busiest blocks in Chicago to enable streetscape 
additions such as curb extensions (4.9.4), as well as bicycle and pedestrian 
improvements.    

116 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Curbside Management Component
IN-STREET BICYCLE PARKING