书名: Complete-Streets-Design-Handbook-2024
章节: TREATMENT_4.6.4

TREATMENT 4.6.4     
Passenger loading zone/parking sign near 34th St on 
Walnut (KAI).
Loading zones should be located, designed, and 
enforced to limit interference with pedestrian and 
bicycle traffic. (KAI - 36th Street and Market).
APPLICATION:
	▪
Appropriate on many street types provided that 
desired operating speeds are 35 mph or lower. 
	▪
Generally not appropriate on Lower Density 
Residential Streets (3.9), Park Roads (3.6), Scenic 
Drives (3.7), Shared Narrow Streets (3.10) or Local 
Streets (3.11) in residential neighborhoods.
CONSIDERATIONS:
	▪
Businesses can apply to the Philadelphia Parking 
Authority to have Loading Zones established out-
side of their locations.
	▪
Loading zones should be located, designed, and 
enforced to limit interference with pedestrian and 
bicycle traffic.
DESIGN:
	▪
See Philadelphia Code Title 12-900 for standards 
and regulations for parking and loading facilities in 
the public right-of-way.
	▪
According to the vehicle code, all vehicles shall be 
parked parallel to the edge of the roadway, headed 
in the direction of traffic, with the wheels placed 
approximately six inches from the curb.
	▪
Vehicles shall be permitted to remain in a Loading 
Only zone for a period of 30 minutes and in a 
Passenger Loading Only zone for a period of 20 
minutes.
	▪
To preserve visibility around large vehicles, loading 
zones should not be located at intersections.
ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:
	▪
The Philadelphia Parking Authority regulates the 
use of on-street parking (4.6.1) and permits loading 
zones. Permits are valid for one year.
EXAMPLES:
	▪
Common throughout the City
RESOURCES:
	▪
Philadelphia Parking Authority
	▪
http://philapark.org/permit-information/
loading-zone-permits/
Loading zones are curbside areas designated for the loading and unloading of 
materials and passengers. Loading zones are typically located in a parking lane. 
Unlike lay-by lanes, loading zones do not encroach into the sidewalk, but wide 
trucks may intrude into adjacent sidewalks, bike facilities, or travel lanes when 
loading/unloading.

120 | Philadelphia Complete Streets Design Handbook
Curbside Management Component
TRANSIT STOPS & SHELTERS